# **Users Help**

The Users tool can help you understand how many people visited certain pages and used certain features of your app. Then by splitting the data further, it can uncover insights such as why certain pages and features were used more than others.

## **Querying for Certain Users**

Explore different groups of users by adjusting the query options at the top of the Users tool:
* **Who used:** Choose custom events and page views.
* **During:** Choose a time range.
* **By:** Choose how to bucket the data, either by an amount of time or by another property such as browser or city.
* **Split By:** Choose a dimension by which to split or segment the data.
* **Add Filters:** Limit the query to certain users based on their properties, such as browser or city.

## **How Users are Counted**

The Users tool counts users based on Application Insights user IDs. These user IDs are anonymous identifiers generated by the Application Insights SDK and stored as a browser cookie. This approach enables automatic counting of users just by adding the SDK to your app, but it has limitations. For example, a single person using three different browsers or three different devices, for example, will be counted as three separate users.

## **Saving and Sharing Reports**

You can save Users reports, either private just to you in the My Reports section, or shared with everyone else with access to this Application Insights resource in the Shared Reports section. 

While saving a report or editing its properties, choose "Current Relative Time Range" to save a report will continuously refreshed data, going back some fixed amount of time. 

Choose "Current Absolute Time Range" to save a report with a fixed set of data. Keep in mind that data in Application Insights is only stored for 90 days, so if more than 90 days have passed since a report with an absolute time range was saved, the report will appear empty.

## **Example Users**

The Example Users section shows information about a handful of individual users that are matched by the current query in the Users tool. Considering and exploring the behaviors of individuals, in addition to aggregates of users, can provide insights about how people actually use your app.

## **Insights**

The Insights sidebar shows large clusters of users that share common properties. These clusters can uncover surprising trends in how people use your app, like if for example 40% of all of the usage of your app comes from people in a single country using a single feature. 
