# Sessions Help

The Sessions tool can help you understand how many sessions of user activity have included certain pages and features of your app. Then by splitting the data further, it can uncover insights like why certain pages and features received more usage than others.

## Querying for Certain Sessions
Explore different groups of sessions by adjusting the query options at the top of the Sessions tool:
* **Who used:** Choose custom events and page views.
* **During:** Choose a time range.
* **By:** Choose how to bucket the data, either by an amount of time or by another property like browser or city.
* **Split By:** Choose a dimension by which to split or segment the data.
* **Add Filters:** Limit the query to certain sessions based on their properties like browser or city.

## How Sessions are Counted
A session is a period of time during which one user used your app in one browser. The Sessions tool counts sessions based on Application Insights session IDs. These session IDs are anonymous identifiers generated by the Application Insights SDK and stored as a browser cookie. Sessions expire after 30 minutes of user inactivity, or after 24 hours which is the maximum session length.

## Saving and Sharing Reports
You can save Sessions reports, either private just to you in the My Reports section, or shared with everyone else with access to this Application Insights resource in the Shared Reports section. 

While saving a report or editing its properties, choose "Current Relative Time Range" to save a report will continuously refreshed data, going back some fixed amount of time. 

Choose "Current Absolute Time Range" to save a report with a fixed set of data. Keep in mind that data in Application Insights is only stored for 90 days, so if more than 90 days have passed since a report with an absolute time range was saved, the report will appear empty.

## Example Sessions
The Example Sessions section shows information about a handful of individual sessions that are matched by the current query in the Sessions tool. Considering and exploring the user behaviors during individual sessions, in addition to aggregates of sessions, can provide insights about how people actually use your app.

## Insights
The Insights sidebar shows large clusters of sessions that share common properties. These clusters can uncover surprising trends in how people use your app, like if for example 40% of all of the usage of your app comes from people in a single country using a single feature. 
